DEPENDENCY_FIX.md, before:

# Dependency Installation Fix

## Problem

`bun install` was hanging indefinitely during dependency resolution when trying to install all dependencies at once.

## Root Cause

- Network/registry timeout issues when bun tries to resolve the full dependency tree
- The process would hang at "Resolving dependencies" step
- Timeout after 90+ seconds with no progress

## Solution

Use a hybrid approach for dependency installation:

### 1. Existing Dependencies

Most dependencies were already installed from previous runs:
- ✅ vite
- ✅ markdown-it
- ✅ pagedjs-cli
- ✅ commander
- ✅ chokidar
- ❌ zod (missing - causing build failures)

### 2. Install Missing Dependencies with npm

Since bun install was hanging, we used npm as a fallback:

```bash
export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
export PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true
npm install zod@3.22.4 --no-save
```

**Result:** Successfully installed zod@3.22.4 in 4 seconds

### 3. Build Success

After installing zod, the build completed successfully:

```bash
bun run build
# Bundled 136 modules in 57ms
# cli.js  0.69 MB  (entry point)
```

## Recommendations

### For Users

If `bun install` hangs during installation:

1. **Try with timeout:**
   ```bash
   timeout 60 bun install
   ```

2. **If that fails, use npm for missing packages:**
   ```bash
   # Check what's missing
   ls node_modules | grep -E "^(zod|vite|markdown-it)$"

   # Install with npm
   npm install zod@3.22.4 --no-save
   ```

3. **Environment variables are critical:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Or export manually:
   export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
   export PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true
   ```

### For CI/CD

Use npm for more reliable installation in automated environments:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
- name: Install dependencies
  run: |
    export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
    npm ci  # More reliable than bun install in CI
```

Or use a combination:

```bash
# Try bun first (faster), fallback to npm
bun install --frozen-lockfile || npm ci
```

### Package.json Configuration

The project already includes Puppeteer skip configuration:

```json
{
  "config": {
    "puppeteer_skip_download": "true"
  }
}
```

But environment variables are still needed for nested dependencies.

## Test Results

### Build Output

- **Bundle Size:** 678 KB (cli.js)
- **Modules Bundled:** 136
- **Build Time:** 57ms
- **Assets:** Copied successfully

### Dependencies Verified

```bash
$ ls node_modules | grep -E "^(zod|vite|markdown-it|pagedjs-cli|commander|chokidar)$"
chokidar
commander
markdown-it
pagedjs-cli
vite
zod

$ cat node_modules/zod/package.json | jq -r '.version'
3.22.4
```

## Future Improvements

1. **Add dependency check script:**
   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "check-deps": "node -e \"['zod','vite','markdown-it'].forEach(d=>require.resolve(d))\""
     }
   }
   ```

2. **Document hybrid installation in README:**
   - Add npm fallback instructions
   - Explain why bun install might hang
   - Provide troubleshooting steps

3. **Consider removing bun.lockb from git:**
   - Let each environment generate its own
   - Might resolve bun install issues

4. **Test with pnpm as alternative:**
   ```bash
   pnpm install --frozen-lockfile
   ```

## Status

✅ **RESOLVED** - Dependencies installed successfully using npm for zod
✅ **BUILD PASSING** - Project builds successfully
✅ **READY FOR TESTING** - Can now test npm publish workflow

## Next Steps

1. ✅ Verify build output
2. ⏭️ Test CLI functionality
3. ⏭️ Test npm publishing workflow (dry run)
4. ⏭️ Document in README troubleshooting section

Commit message:

docs: update documentation to reflect Prince XML/Vivliostyle migration
- Update all documentation to remove Paged.js references
- Replace with Prince XML for PDF generation and Vivliostyle for preview
- Update CLAUDE.md, README.md, ARCHITECTURE.md and all docs/ files
- Add historical notes to review documents (CRITICAL_REVIEW.md, etc.)
- Mark MIGRATION-REMOVE-PAGEDJS.md as completed
- Update CSS comments in preview styles
- Update example CSS files for Vivliostyle compatibility

DEPENDENCY_FIX.md, after:

# Dependency Installation Fix

> **Note:** This document is historical. The project has since migrated from Paged.js/pagedjs-cli to Prince XML and Vivliostyle, resolving many of these dependency issues.

## Problem

`bun install` was hanging indefinitely during dependency resolution when trying to install all dependencies at once.

## Root Cause

- Network/registry timeout issues when bun tries to resolve the full dependency tree
- The process would hang at "Resolving dependencies" step
- Timeout after 90+ seconds with no progress

## Solution

Use a hybrid approach for dependency installation:

### 1. Existing Dependencies

Most dependencies were already installed from previous runs:
- ✅ vite
- ✅ markdown-it
- ✅ pagedjs-cli
- ✅ commander
- ✅ chokidar
- ❌ zod (missing - causing build failures)

### 2. Install Missing Dependencies with npm

Since bun install was hanging, we used npm as a fallback:

```bash
export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
export PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true
npm install zod@3.22.4 --no-save
```

**Result:** Successfully installed zod@3.22.4 in 4 seconds

### 3. Build Success

After installing zod, the build completed successfully:

```bash
bun run build
# Bundled 136 modules in 57ms
# cli.js  0.69 MB  (entry point)
```

## Recommendations

### For Users

If `bun install` hangs during installation:

1. **Try with timeout:**
   ```bash
   timeout 60 bun install
   ```

2. **If that fails, use npm for missing packages:**
   ```bash
   # Check what's missing
   ls node_modules | grep -E "^(zod|vite|markdown-it)$"

   # Install with npm
   npm install zod@3.22.4 --no-save
   ```

3. **Environment variables are critical:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Or export manually:
   export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
   export PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true
   ```

### For CI/CD

Use npm for more reliable installation in automated environments:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
- name: Install dependencies
  run: |
    export PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true
    npm ci  # More reliable than bun install in CI
```

Or use a combination:

```bash
# Try bun first (faster), fallback to npm
bun install --frozen-lockfile || npm ci
```

### Package.json Configuration

The project already includes Puppeteer skip configuration:

```json
{
  "config": {
    "puppeteer_skip_download": "true"
  }
}
```

But environment variables are still needed for nested dependencies.

## Test Results

### Build Output

- **Bundle Size:** 678 KB (cli.js)
- **Modules Bundled:** 136
- **Build Time:** 57ms
- **Assets:** Copied successfully

### Dependencies Verified

```bash
$ ls node_modules | grep -E "^(zod|vite|markdown-it|pagedjs-cli|commander|chokidar)$"
chokidar
commander
markdown-it
pagedjs-cli
vite
zod

$ cat node_modules/zod/package.json | jq -r '.version'
3.22.4
```

## Future Improvements

1. **Add dependency check script:**
   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "check-deps": "node -e \"['zod','vite','markdown-it'].forEach(d=>require.resolve(d))\""
     }
   }
   ```

2. **Document hybrid installation in README:**
   - Add npm fallback instructions
   - Explain why bun install might hang
   - Provide troubleshooting steps

3. **Consider removing bun.lockb from git:**
   - Let each environment generate its own
   - Might resolve bun install issues

4. **Test with pnpm as alternative:**
   ```bash
   pnpm install --frozen-lockfile
   ```

## Status

✅ **RESOLVED** - Dependencies installed successfully using npm for zod
✅ **BUILD PASSING** - Project builds successfully
✅ **READY FOR TESTING** - Can now test npm publish workflow

## Next Steps

1. ✅ Verify build output
2. ⏭️ Test CLI functionality
3. ⏭️ Test npm publishing workflow (dry run)
4. ⏭️ Document in README troubleshooting section
