README.md, before:

# pagedmd

A powerful CLI tool and live preview UI for creating professional print-ready PDFs from markdown. Write your content in markdown and let pagedmd handle the complex CSS Paged Media layout. Uses Prince XML for PDF generation and Vivliostyle for live preview.

## Features

- **Markdown to PDF** - Convert markdown files to professional print layouts
- **Live Preview** - Interactive browser-based preview with Hot Module Replacement
- **Custom Styling** - Full control over typography, layout, and print design with CSS
- **Page Control** - Fine-grained control over page breaks, spreads, and multi-column layouts
- **Extensible** - Plugin system for custom markdown syntax and directives
- **Print-Ready** - Proper bleed, margins, running headers/footers, and page numbering

## Installation

### Recommended: One-Line Install

The easiest way to install pagedmd is using our installation scripts, which handle all dependencies automatically:

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
curl -o install.ps1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/main/scripts/install.ps1; .\install.ps1
```

**Linux/macOS:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

The installation script will:
- Install Bun runtime (if not already installed)
- Install pagedmd globally
- Create a desktop shortcut (Windows/Linux) with custom icon
- Configure auto-browser opening for preview mode

**Windows users:** After installation, double-click the **"Pagedmd Preview"** shortcut on your desktop to launch instantly!

**Linux users:** Find the "Pagedmd Preview" shortcut in your applications menu or desktop.

### Alternative: Package Manager Installation

If you prefer manual installation or already have Bun installed:

```bash
# Install Bun first (if needed)
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash

# Install pagedmd globally
bun install -g @dimm-city/pagedmd

# Or with npm
npm install -g @dimm-city/pagedmd
```

Once installed, the `pagedmd` command will be available globally.

## Documentation

For comprehensive guides and references, see the [/docs](./docs) directory:

- **[Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md)** - Project setup and basic workflow
- **[Core Directives](./docs/core-directives.md)** - Page control and layout directives
- **[Typography](./docs/typography.md)** - Text formatting and styling
- **[Callouts](./docs/callouts.md)** - Professional admonition boxes
- **[Images](./docs/images.md)** - Image handling and print optimization
- **[TTRPG Extensions](./docs/ttrpg-extensions.md)** - Tabletop RPG features
- **[Styling & Theming](./docs/styling-theming.md)** - Customization and CSS
- **[Best Practices](./docs/best-practices.md)** - Professional print guidelines
- **[Complete Guide](./docs/authoring-guide.md)** - All-in-one reference

## Quick Start

### Build a PDF

```bash
# Build from current directory
pagedmd build

# Build from specific directory
pagedmd build ./my-book

# Build with custom output
pagedmd build --output my-book.pdf

# Watch mode (auto-rebuild on changes)
pagedmd build --watch
```

### Live Preview

```bash
# Start preview server with live reload
pagedmd preview

# Custom port
pagedmd preview --port 5000

# Don't auto-open browser
pagedmd preview --open false
```

The preview UI provides:
- **Page navigation** - Jump to any page, navigate with prev/next
- **View modes** - Single page or two-column (spread) view
- **Zoom controls** - Fit to width or custom zoom levels
- **Debug mode** - Visualize page breaks and layout boxes
- **Folder switching** - Load different projects without restarting
- **GitHub cloning** - Clone and preview repositories directly from GitHub

### Clone from GitHub

The preview UI includes built-in support for cloning GitHub repositories:

```bash
# Start preview (no GitHub CLI installation needed yet)
pagedmd preview
```

In the preview UI:
1. Click the **GitHub icon** button in the toolbar
2. If not authenticated, click "Login to GitHub" to authenticate via browser
3. Enter a repository URL in any format:
   - `https://github.com/owner/repo`
   - `git@github.com:owner/repo.git`
   - `owner/repo` (shorthand)
4. Click "Clone Repository"
5. The repository is cloned to `~/.pagedmd/cloned-repos/owner/repo`
6. Preview automatically switches to the cloned repository

**Prerequisites:**
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) must be installed: https://cli.github.com/
- One-time authentication via `gh auth login` or use the UI's "Login to GitHub" button

**Benefits:**
- No OAuth app setup required
- Simple browser-based authentication
- Repositories stored locally for offline access
- Easy sharing of markdown projects via GitHub

## Configuration

Create a `manifest.yaml` in your project directory:

```yaml
title: My Book Title
authors:
  - Author Name
description: Book description

page:
  size: letter      # or 'a4', '6x9', custom dimensions
  margins:
    top: 0.75in
    bottom: 0.75in
    inside: 0.875in
    outside: 0.625in
  bleed: 0.125in    # for print bleed

styles:
  - themes/my-theme.css
  - custom-styles.css

files:  # Optional - control file order
  - chapter-01.md
  - chapter-02.md
  - chapter-03.md

# Plugin system (new approach - recommended)
plugins:
  - ttrpg                      # Built-in TTRPG plugin
  - ./plugins/my-plugin.js     # Local custom plugin
  - name: pagedmd-plugin-name  # npm package plugin
    version: "^1.0.0"
    options:
      customOption: true

# Legacy extensions (deprecated - use plugins instead)
extensions:
  - ttrpg      # Stat blocks, dice notation
  - dimmCity   # Custom game syntax
```

## Markdown Directives

pagedmd extends markdown with special directives for print layout:

### Page Control

```markdown
@page         # Force page break before this line
@break        # Force column break (in multi-column layouts)
@spread       # Force content to start on a right-hand page
@columns 2    # Switch to 2-column layout
@columns 1    # Switch back to single column
```

### Example

```markdown
# Chapter One

This is the first paragraph.

@page

# Chapter Two

This chapter starts on a new page.

@columns 2

This content flows in two columns.

@columns 1

Back to single column.
```

## Plugin System

pagedmd supports a powerful plugin system that lets you extend markdown syntax with custom features. Plugins can add new markdown syntax, modify rendering, and inject CSS styles.

### Built-in Plugins

```yaml
plugins:
  - ttrpg      # TTRPG features (stat blocks, dice notation, cross-refs)
  - dimmCity   # Dimm City game syntax (district badges, roll prompts)
```

### Local Plugins

Create your own plugins as JavaScript files:

```yaml
plugins:
  - ./plugins/my-plugin.js     # Local plugin file
  - path: ./plugins/callouts.js
    priority: 200               # Higher priority = loads first
    options:
      types: ["note", "warning"]
```

**Example plugin** (`plugins/my-plugin.js`):

```javascript
// Plugin function
export default function myPlugin(md, options) {
  // Extend markdown-it functionality
  md.renderer.rules.heading_open = function(tokens, idx) {
    return `<h${tokens[idx].tag.slice(1)} class="custom">`;
  };
}

// Plugin metadata
export const metadata = {
  name: 'my-plugin',
  version: '1.0.0',
  description: 'Custom heading styles'
};

// Plugin CSS (automatically injected)
export const css = `
.custom { color: blue; }
`;
```

### npm Package Plugins

Install and use plugins from npm:

```bash
npm install markdown-it-footnote
```

```yaml
plugins:
  - name: markdown-it-footnote
    version: "^3.0.0"
    options:
      footnoteMarker: true
```

### Plugin Priority

Control load order with priority (higher = earlier):

```yaml
plugins:
  - path: ./plugins/preprocessor.js
    priority: 500  # Runs first
  - ttrpg          # Default priority (100)
  - path: ./plugins/postprocessor.js
    priority: 50   # Runs last
```

**Learn more:** See [examples/plugins/README.md](./examples/plugins/README.md) for a complete plugin development guide and working examples.

## Styling

### CSS Cascade

Styles are applied in order:

1. **Default Styles** - Base typography and layout (optional)
2. **Theme Styles** - Your custom themes from `manifest.yaml`
3. **CSS @import** - All imports are resolved and inlined

### Disable Default Styles

```yaml
disableDefaultStyles: true
styles:
  - my-complete-theme.css
```

### CSS Paged Media

Use standard CSS Paged Media features:

```css
@page {
  size: 6in 9in;
  margin: 0.75in;
}

@page :left {
  margin-left: 1in;
}

@page :right {
  margin-right: 1in;
}

h1 {
  page-break-before: always;
  page-break-after: avoid;
}
```

## CLI Reference

### Build Command

```bash
pagedmd build [input] [options]
```

**Options:**
- `--output <file>` - Output file path (default: output.pdf)
- `--format <type>` - Output format: `pdf` or `html` (default: pdf)
- `--watch` - Watch for changes and rebuild automatically

**Examples:**

```bash
# Build PDF with custom output
pagedmd build ./book --output book.pdf

# Build standalone HTML
pagedmd build --format html --output book.html

# Watch mode
pagedmd build --watch
```

### Preview Command

```bash
pagedmd preview [input] [options]
```

**Options:**
- `--port <number>` - Server port (default: 3000)
- `--open <boolean>` - Auto-open browser (default: true)
- `--no-watch` - Disable file watching

**Examples:**

```bash
# Start preview on default port (3000)
pagedmd preview

# Custom port
pagedmd preview --port 8080

# Don't open browser automatically
pagedmd preview --open false

# Preview without file watching
pagedmd preview --no-watch
```

## Architecture

### Build Pipeline

1. **Markdown Processing** - Converts markdown to HTML with markdown-it
2. **Plugin System** - Extensible directives and custom syntax
3. **CSS Resolution** - Resolves and inlines all @import statements
4. **Format Strategy** - Delegates to PDF or HTML output strategy

### Preview Mode

- **Dual-Server Architecture**:
  - Bun server (user port) - Toolbar UI and API endpoints
  - Vite server (auto port) - Preview content with HMR
- **Live Reload** - File changes trigger automatic HTML regeneration
- **Reverse Proxy** - Seamless integration between servers

### Output Formats

- **PDF** - Renders via Prince XML typesetter for professional print quality
- **HTML** - Standalone HTML file for web viewing

## Project Structure

```
pagedmd/
├── src/
│   ├── cli.ts              # CLI entry point
│   ├── build/              # Build orchestration and format strategies
│   ├── markdown/           # Markdown processing and plugins
│   ├── server.ts           # Preview server
│   ├── utils/              # Utilities (config, file ops, CSS)
│   └── assets/
│       ├── core/           # Base Print CSS
│       ├── themes/         # Bundled themes
│       ├── plugins/        # Plugin CSS
│       └── preview/        # Preview UI assets
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Prerequisites

This project uses [Bun](https://bun.com) runtime v1.3.1 or later.

### Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/dimm-city/pagedmd.git
cd pagedmd

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run from source
bun src/cli.ts build
bun src/cli.ts preview

# Build the CLI
bun run build

# Run tests
bun test
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Installation Issues

**Problem: Command Not Found After Installation**

If `pagedmd` command isn't found after global installation:

```bash
# Check if bun's global bin directory is in PATH
echo $PATH | grep -q ".bun/bin" || echo "Bun bin not in PATH"

# Add to your shell profile (.bashrc, .zshrc, etc.)
export PATH="$HOME/.bun/bin:$PATH"

# Reload shell configuration
source ~/.bashrc  # or ~/.zshrc
```

#### Build Issues

**Problem: PDF Generation Fails with "Prince Not Found"**

Ensure Prince XML is installed and accessible:

```bash
# Verify Prince installation
which prince      # Linux/macOS
where prince.exe  # Windows

# Install Prince from https://www.princexml.com/download/
```

**Problem: Build Fails with "manifest.yaml not found"**

Create a minimal manifest.yaml in your project directory:

```yaml
title: "My Book"
authors:
  - "Your Name"
```

**Problem: CSS Import Not Resolving**

CSS imports are resolved relative to the file containing the @import. Check paths:

```css
/* If your CSS is in styles/theme.css */
@import "variables.css";        /* Looks for styles/variables.css */
@import "../common/base.css";   /* Looks for common/base.css */
```

Verify the file exists:
```bash
# From your project root
ls -la styles/variables.css
```

**Problem: Build Hangs or Takes Very Long**

Large images or complex CSS can slow down PDF generation:

1. **Optimize images:**
   ```bash
   # Resize large images (requires ImageMagick)
   mogrify -resize 1920x1080\> -quality 85 images/*.jpg
   ```

2. **Use `--verbose` to see where it's stuck:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --verbose
   ```

3. **Check for circular CSS imports:**
   - A imports B
   - B imports A
   - Result: infinite loop

#### Preview Mode Issues

**Problem: Preview Server Won't Start**

Port might be in use:

```bash
# Check what's using the default port (3000)
lsof -i :3000          # Linux/macOS
netstat -ano | findstr :3000  # Windows

# Use a different port
pagedmd preview --port 8080
```

**Problem: Changes Not Reflecting in Preview**

File watching might have failed:

1. **Check file system limits (Linux):**
   ```bash
   # Increase inotify watchers
   echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
   sudo sysctl -p
   ```

2. **Restart preview server:**
   ```bash
   # Ctrl+C to stop
   pagedmd preview
   ```

3. **Hard refresh browser:**
   - Chrome/Edge: Ctrl+Shift+R (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+R (macOS)
   - Firefox: Ctrl+F5 (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+R (macOS)

**Problem: Preview Shows "Cannot Connect to Vite Server"**

The dual-server architecture requires both servers to start:

1. **Check if ports are available:**
   ```bash
   # Main server (3000 default)
   lsof -i :3000

   # Vite server (auto-assigned, usually 5173)
   lsof -i :5173
   ```

2. **Check firewall settings:**
   - Ensure localhost connections are allowed
   - Try disabling firewall temporarily to test

3. **Check logs for errors:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd preview --verbose
   ```

#### Content Issues

**Problem: Page Breaks Not Working**

Ensure directives are on their own line:

```markdown
<!-- ❌ Wrong -->
Some text @page More text

<!-- ✓ Correct -->
Some text

@page

More text
```

**Problem: Images Not Showing in PDF**

1. **Check image paths are relative to markdown file:**
   ```markdown
   <!-- If markdown is in chapters/chapter1.md -->
   ![Image](../images/photo.jpg)  <!-- Looks for images/photo.jpg -->
   ```

2. **Verify image file exists:**
   ```bash
   ls -la images/photo.jpg
   ```

3. **Check image format is supported:**
   - Supported: JPG, PNG, GIF, SVG, WebP
   - Not supported: TIFF, BMP (convert first)

**Problem: Styles Not Applied**

Check CSS cascade order in manifest.yaml:

```yaml
# Styles are applied in order (last wins)
styles:
  - "themes/base.css"      # Applied first
  - "themes/theme.css"     # Overrides base
  - "custom.css"           # Overrides everything
```

Verify CSS files exist:
```bash
ls -la themes/theme.css custom.css
```

#### GitHub Integration Issues

**Problem: "gh CLI Not Found"**

Install GitHub CLI:

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Linux
curl -fsSL https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo dd of=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null
sudo apt update
sudo apt install gh

# Windows
winget install --id GitHub.cli
```

**Problem: GitHub Authentication Fails**

Authenticate with GitHub:

```bash
# Interactive authentication
gh auth login

# Or use the preview UI's "Login to GitHub" button
```

**Problem: Clone Permission Denied**

Ensure you have access to the repository:

```bash
# For private repos, check authentication
gh auth status

# For public repos, try HTTPS URL instead of SSH:
# Use: https://github.com/owner/repo
# Not: git@github.com:owner/repo.git
```

#### Performance Issues

**Problem: Build is Slow**

1. **Use `--profile` to identify bottlenecks:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --profile
   ```

2. **Common slow operations:**
   - Large images (optimize/resize)
   - Complex CSS (simplify selectors)
   - Many files (combine related content)
   - Circular CSS imports (fix import chain)

3. **Try HTML format first (faster):**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --format html
   ```

**Problem: Preview Uses Too Much Memory**

1. **Close other browser tabs**

2. **Reduce image sizes in your content**

3. **Disable file watching if not needed:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd preview --no-watch
   ```

#### Common Error Messages

**"Cannot find module 'zod'"**

Dependencies not installed:
```bash
bun install
```

**"ENOENT: no such file or directory"**

Check paths in manifest.yaml are relative to project root:
```yaml
# If manifest.yaml is in /home/user/project/
files:
  - "chapters/intro.md"  # Looks for /home/user/project/chapters/intro.md
```

**"Invalid manifest.yaml: title is required"**

Ensure required fields are present:
```yaml
title: "Your Title"    # Required
authors:               # Required
  - "Your Name"
```

**"Failed to parse markdown"**

Check for syntax errors in your markdown:
- Unclosed code blocks (```)
- Invalid YAML frontmatter
- Malformed HTML tags

#### Getting Help

If you're still stuck:

1. **Check existing issues:** https://github.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/issues
2. **Enable verbose output:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --verbose
   pagedmd preview --verbose
   ```
3. **Create a minimal reproduction:**
   - Single markdown file
   - Minimal manifest.yaml
   - No custom CSS
4. **Open an issue:** Include:
   - Operating system and version
   - Bun/Node version (`bun --version`)
   - pagedmd version (`pagedmd --version`)
   - Full error message
   - Steps to reproduce

**Note**: PDF generation requires Prince XML to be installed. See https://www.princexml.com/download/ for installation instructions.

### Contributing

This project uses:
- [Bun](https://bun.com) - Fast all-in-one JavaScript runtime
- [Prince XML](https://www.princexml.com/) - Professional PDF typesetter
- [Vivliostyle](https://vivliostyle.org/) - CSS Paged Media viewer for preview
- [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) - Markdown parser

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

You are free to share and adapt this work for any purpose, even commercially, as long as you provide appropriate attribution.

Commit message:

feat: add WeasyPrint build script and CLI wrapper for PDF generation
- Introduced `build-weasyprint.ts` for building PDFs using WeasyPrint (v68+), including CSS concatenation and various PDF options.
- Added `weasyprint-wrapper.ts` to encapsulate WeasyPrint command execution, version checking, and error handling.
- Implemented support for PDF/A and PDF/X variants, image optimization, and custom stylesheets.
- Enhanced CLI with argument parsing for input/output files, media type, and additional options.

README.md, after:

# pagedmd

A powerful CLI tool and live preview UI for creating professional print-ready PDFs from markdown. Write your content in markdown and let pagedmd handle the complex CSS Paged Media layout. Uses WeasyPrint (default) or Vivliostyle for PDF generation and Paged.js for live preview. Prince XML and DocRaptor are also supported for highest quality output.

## Features

- **Markdown to PDF** - Convert markdown files to professional print layouts
- **Live Preview** - Interactive browser-based preview with Hot Module Replacement
- **Custom Styling** - Full control over typography, layout, and print design with CSS
- **Page Control** - Fine-grained control over page breaks, spreads, and multi-column layouts
- **Extensible** - Plugin system for custom markdown syntax and directives
- **Print-Ready** - Proper bleed, margins, running headers/footers, and page numbering

## Installation

### Recommended: One-Line Install

The easiest way to install pagedmd is using our installation scripts, which handle all dependencies automatically:

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
curl -o install.ps1 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/main/scripts/install.ps1; .\install.ps1
```

**Linux/macOS:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

The installation script will:
- Install Bun runtime (if not already installed)
- Install pagedmd globally
- Create a desktop shortcut (Windows/Linux) with custom icon
- Configure auto-browser opening for preview mode

**Windows users:** After installation, double-click the **"Pagedmd Preview"** shortcut on your desktop to launch instantly!

**Linux users:** Find the "Pagedmd Preview" shortcut in your applications menu or desktop.

### Alternative: Package Manager Installation

If you prefer manual installation or already have Bun installed:

```bash
# Install Bun first (if needed)
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash

# Install pagedmd globally
bun install -g @dimm-city/pagedmd

# Or with npm
npm install -g @dimm-city/pagedmd
```

Once installed, the `pagedmd` command will be available globally.

## Documentation

For comprehensive guides and references, see the [/docs](./docs) directory:

- **[Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md)** - Project setup and basic workflow
- **[Core Directives](./docs/core-directives.md)** - Page control and layout directives
- **[Typography](./docs/typography.md)** - Text formatting and styling
- **[Callouts](./docs/callouts.md)** - Professional admonition boxes
- **[Images](./docs/images.md)** - Image handling and print optimization
- **[TTRPG Extensions](./docs/ttrpg-extensions.md)** - Tabletop RPG features
- **[Styling & Theming](./docs/styling-theming.md)** - Customization and CSS
- **[Best Practices](./docs/best-practices.md)** - Professional print guidelines
- **[Complete Guide](./docs/authoring-guide.md)** - All-in-one reference

## Quick Start

### Build a PDF

```bash
# Build from current directory
pagedmd build

# Build from specific directory
pagedmd build ./my-book

# Build with custom output
pagedmd build --output my-book.pdf

# Watch mode (auto-rebuild on changes)
pagedmd build --watch
```

### Live Preview

```bash
# Start preview server with live reload
pagedmd preview

# Custom port
pagedmd preview --port 5000

# Don't auto-open browser
pagedmd preview --open false
```

The preview UI provides:
- **Page navigation** - Jump to any page, navigate with prev/next
- **View modes** - Single page or two-column (spread) view
- **Zoom controls** - Fit to width or custom zoom levels
- **Debug mode** - Visualize page breaks and layout boxes
- **Folder switching** - Load different projects without restarting
- **GitHub cloning** - Clone and preview repositories directly from GitHub

### Clone from GitHub

The preview UI includes built-in support for cloning GitHub repositories:

```bash
# Start preview (no GitHub CLI installation needed yet)
pagedmd preview
```

In the preview UI:
1. Click the **GitHub icon** button in the toolbar
2. If not authenticated, click "Login to GitHub" to authenticate via browser
3. Enter a repository URL in any format:
   - `https://github.com/owner/repo`
   - `git@github.com:owner/repo.git`
   - `owner/repo` (shorthand)
4. Click "Clone Repository"
5. The repository is cloned to `~/.pagedmd/cloned-repos/owner/repo`
6. Preview automatically switches to the cloned repository

**Prerequisites:**
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) must be installed: https://cli.github.com/
- One-time authentication via `gh auth login` or use the UI's "Login to GitHub" button

**Benefits:**
- No OAuth app setup required
- Simple browser-based authentication
- Repositories stored locally for offline access
- Easy sharing of markdown projects via GitHub

## Configuration

Create a `manifest.yaml` in your project directory:

```yaml
title: My Book Title
authors:
  - Author Name
description: Book description

page:
  size: letter      # or 'a4', '6x9', custom dimensions
  margins:
    top: 0.75in
    bottom: 0.75in
    inside: 0.875in
    outside: 0.625in
  bleed: 0.125in    # for print bleed

styles:
  - themes/my-theme.css
  - custom-styles.css

files:  # Optional - control file order
  - chapter-01.md
  - chapter-02.md
  - chapter-03.md

# Plugin system (new approach - recommended)
plugins:
  - ttrpg                      # Built-in TTRPG plugin
  - ./plugins/my-plugin.js     # Local custom plugin
  - name: pagedmd-plugin-name  # npm package plugin
    version: "^1.0.0"
    options:
      customOption: true

# Legacy extensions (deprecated - use plugins instead)
extensions:
  - ttrpg      # Stat blocks, dice notation
  - dimmCity   # Custom game syntax
```

## Markdown Directives

pagedmd extends markdown with special directives for print layout:

### Page Control

```markdown
@page         # Force page break before this line
@break        # Force column break (in multi-column layouts)
@spread       # Force content to start on a right-hand page
@columns 2    # Switch to 2-column layout
@columns 1    # Switch back to single column
```

### Example

```markdown
# Chapter One

This is the first paragraph.

@page

# Chapter Two

This chapter starts on a new page.

@columns 2

This content flows in two columns.

@columns 1

Back to single column.
```

## Plugin System

pagedmd supports a powerful plugin system that lets you extend markdown syntax with custom features. Plugins can add new markdown syntax, modify rendering, and inject CSS styles.

### Built-in Plugins

```yaml
plugins:
  - ttrpg      # TTRPG features (stat blocks, dice notation, cross-refs)
  - dimmCity   # Dimm City game syntax (district badges, roll prompts)
```

### Local Plugins

Create your own plugins as JavaScript files:

```yaml
plugins:
  - ./plugins/my-plugin.js     # Local plugin file
  - path: ./plugins/callouts.js
    priority: 200               # Higher priority = loads first
    options:
      types: ["note", "warning"]
```

**Example plugin** (`plugins/my-plugin.js`):

```javascript
// Plugin function
export default function myPlugin(md, options) {
  // Extend markdown-it functionality
  md.renderer.rules.heading_open = function(tokens, idx) {
    return `<h${tokens[idx].tag.slice(1)} class="custom">`;
  };
}

// Plugin metadata
export const metadata = {
  name: 'my-plugin',
  version: '1.0.0',
  description: 'Custom heading styles'
};

// Plugin CSS (automatically injected)
export const css = `
.custom { color: blue; }
`;
```

### npm Package Plugins

Install and use plugins from npm:

```bash
npm install markdown-it-footnote
```

```yaml
plugins:
  - name: markdown-it-footnote
    version: "^3.0.0"
    options:
      footnoteMarker: true
```

### Plugin Priority

Control load order with priority (higher = earlier):

```yaml
plugins:
  - path: ./plugins/preprocessor.js
    priority: 500  # Runs first
  - ttrpg          # Default priority (100)
  - path: ./plugins/postprocessor.js
    priority: 50   # Runs last
```

**Learn more:** See [examples/plugins/README.md](./examples/plugins/README.md) for a complete plugin development guide and working examples.

## Styling

### CSS Cascade

Styles are applied in order:

1. **Default Styles** - Base typography and layout (optional)
2. **Theme Styles** - Your custom themes from `manifest.yaml`
3. **CSS @import** - All imports are resolved and inlined

### Disable Default Styles

```yaml
disableDefaultStyles: true
styles:
  - my-complete-theme.css
```

### CSS Paged Media

Use standard CSS Paged Media features:

```css
@page {
  size: 6in 9in;
  margin: 0.75in;
}

@page :left {
  margin-left: 1in;
}

@page :right {
  margin-right: 1in;
}

h1 {
  page-break-before: always;
  page-break-after: avoid;
}
```

## CLI Reference

### Build Command

```bash
pagedmd build [input] [options]
```

**Options:**
- `--output <file>` - Output file path (default: output.pdf)
- `--format <type>` - Output format: `pdf` or `html` (default: pdf)
- `--watch` - Watch for changes and rebuild automatically

**Examples:**

```bash
# Build PDF with custom output
pagedmd build ./book --output book.pdf

# Build standalone HTML
pagedmd build --format html --output book.html

# Watch mode
pagedmd build --watch
```

### Preview Command

```bash
pagedmd preview [input] [options]
```

**Options:**
- `--port <number>` - Server port (default: 3000)
- `--open <boolean>` - Auto-open browser (default: true)
- `--no-watch` - Disable file watching

**Examples:**

```bash
# Start preview on default port (3000)
pagedmd preview

# Custom port
pagedmd preview --port 8080

# Don't open browser automatically
pagedmd preview --open false

# Preview without file watching
pagedmd preview --no-watch
```

## Architecture

### Build Pipeline

1. **Markdown Processing** - Converts markdown to HTML with markdown-it
2. **Plugin System** - Extensible directives and custom syntax
3. **CSS Resolution** - Resolves and inlines all @import statements
4. **Format Strategy** - Delegates to PDF or HTML output strategy

### Preview Mode

- **Dual-Server Architecture**:
  - Bun server (user port) - Toolbar UI and API endpoints
  - Vite server (auto port) - Preview content with HMR
- **Live Reload** - File changes trigger automatic HTML regeneration
- **Reverse Proxy** - Seamless integration between servers

### Output Formats

- **PDF** - Renders via WeasyPrint (default), Vivliostyle, Prince XML, or DocRaptor for professional print quality
- **HTML** - Standalone HTML file for web viewing

## Project Structure

```
pagedmd/
├── src/
│   ├── cli.ts              # CLI entry point
│   ├── build/              # Build orchestration and format strategies
│   ├── markdown/           # Markdown processing and plugins
│   ├── server.ts           # Preview server
│   ├── utils/              # Utilities (config, file ops, CSS)
│   └── assets/
│       ├── core/           # Base Print CSS
│       ├── themes/         # Bundled themes
│       ├── plugins/        # Plugin CSS
│       └── preview/        # Preview UI assets
└── README.md
```

## Development

### Prerequisites

This project uses [Bun](https://bun.com) runtime v1.3.1 or later.

### Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/dimm-city/pagedmd.git
cd pagedmd

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run from source
bun src/cli.ts build
bun src/cli.ts preview

# Build the CLI
bun run build

# Run tests
bun test
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Installation Issues

**Problem: Command Not Found After Installation**

If `pagedmd` command isn't found after global installation:

```bash
# Check if bun's global bin directory is in PATH
echo $PATH | grep -q ".bun/bin" || echo "Bun bin not in PATH"

# Add to your shell profile (.bashrc, .zshrc, etc.)
export PATH="$HOME/.bun/bin:$PATH"

# Reload shell configuration
source ~/.bashrc  # or ~/.zshrc
```

#### Build Issues

**Problem: PDF Generation Fails with "WeasyPrint Not Found"**

If WeasyPrint is not installed, pagedmd falls back to Vivliostyle. To use WeasyPrint (recommended for DriveThru RPG compatibility):

```bash
# Install WeasyPrint v68.0+
pip install 'weasyprint>=68.0'

# Verify installation
weasyprint --version
```

**Problem: PDF Generation Fails with "Prince Not Found"**

If you're explicitly using Prince XML, ensure it's installed and accessible:

```bash
# Verify Prince installation
which prince      # Linux/macOS
where prince.exe  # Windows

# Install Prince from https://www.princexml.com/download/
```

**Problem: Build Fails with "manifest.yaml not found"**

Create a minimal manifest.yaml in your project directory:

```yaml
title: "My Book"
authors:
  - "Your Name"
```

**Problem: CSS Import Not Resolving**

CSS imports are resolved relative to the file containing the @import. Check paths:

```css
/* If your CSS is in styles/theme.css */
@import "variables.css";        /* Looks for styles/variables.css */
@import "../common/base.css";   /* Looks for common/base.css */
```

Verify the file exists:
```bash
# From your project root
ls -la styles/variables.css
```

**Problem: Build Hangs or Takes Very Long**

Large images or complex CSS can slow down PDF generation:

1. **Optimize images:**
   ```bash
   # Resize large images (requires ImageMagick)
   mogrify -resize 1920x1080\> -quality 85 images/*.jpg
   ```

2. **Use `--verbose` to see where it's stuck:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --verbose
   ```

3. **Check for circular CSS imports:**
   - A imports B
   - B imports A
   - Result: infinite loop

#### Preview Mode Issues

**Problem: Preview Server Won't Start**

Port might be in use:

```bash
# Check what's using the default port (3000)
lsof -i :3000          # Linux/macOS
netstat -ano | findstr :3000  # Windows

# Use a different port
pagedmd preview --port 8080
```

**Problem: Changes Not Reflecting in Preview**

File watching might have failed:

1. **Check file system limits (Linux):**
   ```bash
   # Increase inotify watchers
   echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
   sudo sysctl -p
   ```

2. **Restart preview server:**
   ```bash
   # Ctrl+C to stop
   pagedmd preview
   ```

3. **Hard refresh browser:**
   - Chrome/Edge: Ctrl+Shift+R (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+R (macOS)
   - Firefox: Ctrl+F5 (Windows/Linux) or Cmd+Shift+R (macOS)

**Problem: Preview Shows "Cannot Connect to Vite Server"**

The dual-server architecture requires both servers to start:

1. **Check if ports are available:**
   ```bash
   # Main server (3000 default)
   lsof -i :3000

   # Vite server (auto-assigned, usually 5173)
   lsof -i :5173
   ```

2. **Check firewall settings:**
   - Ensure localhost connections are allowed
   - Try disabling firewall temporarily to test

3. **Check logs for errors:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd preview --verbose
   ```

#### Content Issues

**Problem: Page Breaks Not Working**

Ensure directives are on their own line:

```markdown
<!-- ❌ Wrong -->
Some text @page More text

<!-- ✓ Correct -->
Some text

@page

More text
```

**Problem: Images Not Showing in PDF**

1. **Check image paths are relative to markdown file:**
   ```markdown
   <!-- If markdown is in chapters/chapter1.md -->
   ![Image](../images/photo.jpg)  <!-- Looks for images/photo.jpg -->
   ```

2. **Verify image file exists:**
   ```bash
   ls -la images/photo.jpg
   ```

3. **Check image format is supported:**
   - Supported: JPG, PNG, GIF, SVG, WebP
   - Not supported: TIFF, BMP (convert first)

**Problem: Styles Not Applied**

Check CSS cascade order in manifest.yaml:

```yaml
# Styles are applied in order (last wins)
styles:
  - "themes/base.css"      # Applied first
  - "themes/theme.css"     # Overrides base
  - "custom.css"           # Overrides everything
```

Verify CSS files exist:
```bash
ls -la themes/theme.css custom.css
```

#### GitHub Integration Issues

**Problem: "gh CLI Not Found"**

Install GitHub CLI:

```bash
# macOS
brew install gh

# Linux
curl -fsSL https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo dd of=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null
sudo apt update
sudo apt install gh

# Windows
winget install --id GitHub.cli
```

**Problem: GitHub Authentication Fails**

Authenticate with GitHub:

```bash
# Interactive authentication
gh auth login

# Or use the preview UI's "Login to GitHub" button
```

**Problem: Clone Permission Denied**

Ensure you have access to the repository:

```bash
# For private repos, check authentication
gh auth status

# For public repos, try HTTPS URL instead of SSH:
# Use: https://github.com/owner/repo
# Not: git@github.com:owner/repo.git
```

#### Performance Issues

**Problem: Build is Slow**

1. **Use `--profile` to identify bottlenecks:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --profile
   ```

2. **Common slow operations:**
   - Large images (optimize/resize)
   - Complex CSS (simplify selectors)
   - Many files (combine related content)
   - Circular CSS imports (fix import chain)

3. **Try HTML format first (faster):**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --format html
   ```

**Problem: Preview Uses Too Much Memory**

1. **Close other browser tabs**

2. **Reduce image sizes in your content**

3. **Disable file watching if not needed:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd preview --no-watch
   ```

#### Common Error Messages

**"Cannot find module 'zod'"**

Dependencies not installed:
```bash
bun install
```

**"ENOENT: no such file or directory"**

Check paths in manifest.yaml are relative to project root:
```yaml
# If manifest.yaml is in /home/user/project/
files:
  - "chapters/intro.md"  # Looks for /home/user/project/chapters/intro.md
```

**"Invalid manifest.yaml: title is required"**

Ensure required fields are present:
```yaml
title: "Your Title"    # Required
authors:               # Required
  - "Your Name"
```

**"Failed to parse markdown"**

Check for syntax errors in your markdown:
- Unclosed code blocks (```)
- Invalid YAML frontmatter
- Malformed HTML tags

#### Getting Help

If you're still stuck:

1. **Check existing issues:** https://github.com/dimm-city/pagedmd/issues
2. **Enable verbose output:**
   ```bash
   pagedmd build --verbose
   pagedmd preview --verbose
   ```
3. **Create a minimal reproduction:**
   - Single markdown file
   - Minimal manifest.yaml
   - No custom CSS
4. **Open an issue:** Include:
   - Operating system and version
   - Bun/Node version (`bun --version`)
   - pagedmd version (`pagedmd --version`)
   - Full error message
   - Steps to reproduce

**Note**: For optimal DriveThru RPG compatibility, install WeasyPrint v68.0+: `pip install 'weasyprint>=68.0'`. If WeasyPrint is not installed, pagedmd falls back to Vivliostyle (bundled). For highest quality output, you can also install Prince XML from https://www.princexml.com/download/

### Contributing

This project uses:
- [Bun](https://bun.com) - Fast all-in-one JavaScript runtime
- [WeasyPrint](https://weasyprint.org/) - Open-source HTML/CSS to PDF converter (default)
- [Paged.js](https://pagedjs.org/) - CSS Paged Media polyfill for preview
- [Vivliostyle](https://vivliostyle.org/) - CSS Paged Media (fallback PDF engine)
- [Prince XML](https://www.princexml.com/) - Professional PDF typesetter (optional)
- [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) - Markdown parser

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

You are free to share and adapt this work for any purpose, even commercially, as long as you provide appropriate attribution.
