docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started with PagedMD

PagedMD converts markdown files into professional print PDFs using Paged.js. It's designed for creating books, manuals, rulebooks, and any print-first documents.

## Basic Workflow

```bash
# Build a PDF from markdown files
pagedmd build ./my-book

# Preview with live reload
pagedmd preview ./my-book

# Build with custom output name
pagedmd build ./my-book --output my-book.pdf
```

## Project Structure

```
my-book/
├── manifest.yaml          # Book configuration
├── 01-introduction.md     # Chapter files (numbered for order)
├── 02-mechanics.md
├── 03-combat.md
├── assets/                # Images, fonts, etc.
│   └── cover.jpg
└── styles/                # Custom CSS (optional)
    └── custom.css
```

## Document Structure

### Manifest Configuration

Create a `manifest.yaml` file in your project directory:

```yaml
# Basic metadata
title: "My Awesome Book"
authors:
  - "Jane Doe"
  - "John Smith"
description: "A comprehensive guide to..."

# Page format
format:
  size: "6in 9in"          # Digest size (default)
  margins:
    top: "0.75in"
    bottom: "0.75in"
    inner: "0.75in"        # Binding edge
    outer: "0.5in"         # Trim edge
  bleed: "0.125in"         # Print bleed zone

# Styling (CSS cascade)
styles:
  - "themes/classic.css"   # Bundled theme
  - "styles/custom.css"    # Your custom styles

# File ordering (optional - defaults to alphabetical)
files:
  - "01-introduction.md"
  - "02-mechanics.md"
  - "03-combat.md"

# Enable extensions (optional)
extensions:
  - "ttrpg"                # Stat blocks, dice notation, etc.
  - "dimm-city"            # District badges, roll prompts
```

### Page Format Options

Common book sizes:

```yaml
# Trade paperback
size: "6in 9in"

# Standard novel
size: "5.5in 8.5in"

# Large format
size: "8.5in 11in"

# A4
size: "210mm 297mm"

# A5
size: "148mm 210mm"
```

## File Organization

### Recommended Structure

```
my-book/
├── manifest.yaml
├── 00-frontmatter/
│   ├── title.md
│   ├── credits.md
│   └── toc.md
├── 01-introduction.md
├── 02-chapter-one.md
├── 03-chapter-two.md
├── 99-backmatter/
│   ├── appendix.md
│   └── index.md
├── assets/
│   ├── images/
│   ├── fonts/
│   └── diagrams/
└── styles/
    └── custom.css
```

### Naming Conventions

- **Number files** for explicit ordering: `01-intro.md`, `02-chapter.md`
- **Use descriptive names**: `character-creation.md` not `cc.md`
- **Separate frontmatter/backmatter**: Use folders or clear numbering
- **Keep images organized**: Use subdirectories by type or chapter

## Next Steps

- Review the [Core Directives Reference](core-directives.md) for page control
- Learn about [Typography & Formatting](typography.md) options
- Explore [Callouts & Admonitions](callouts.md) for highlighted content
- See [Styling & Theming](styling-theming.md) for customization
- Check [Best Practices](best-practices.md) for print optimization

Commit message:

docs: update documentation to reflect Prince XML/Vivliostyle migration
- Update all documentation to remove Paged.js references
- Replace with Prince XML for PDF generation and Vivliostyle for preview
- Update CLAUDE.md, README.md, ARCHITECTURE.md and all docs/ files
- Add historical notes to review documents (CRITICAL_REVIEW.md, etc.)
- Mark MIGRATION-REMOVE-PAGEDJS.md as completed
- Update CSS comments in preview styles
- Update example CSS files for Vivliostyle compatibility

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started with PagedMD

PagedMD converts markdown files into professional print PDFs. It's designed for creating books, manuals, rulebooks, and any print-first documents. Uses Prince XML for PDF generation and Vivliostyle for live preview.

## Basic Workflow

```bash
# Build a PDF from markdown files
pagedmd build ./my-book

# Preview with live reload
pagedmd preview ./my-book

# Build with custom output name
pagedmd build ./my-book --output my-book.pdf
```

## Project Structure

```
my-book/
├── manifest.yaml          # Book configuration
├── 01-introduction.md     # Chapter files (numbered for order)
├── 02-mechanics.md
├── 03-combat.md
├── assets/                # Images, fonts, etc.
│   └── cover.jpg
└── styles/                # Custom CSS (optional)
    └── custom.css
```

## Document Structure

### Manifest Configuration

Create a `manifest.yaml` file in your project directory:

```yaml
# Basic metadata
title: "My Awesome Book"
authors:
  - "Jane Doe"
  - "John Smith"
description: "A comprehensive guide to..."

# Page format
format:
  size: "6in 9in"          # Digest size (default)
  margins:
    top: "0.75in"
    bottom: "0.75in"
    inner: "0.75in"        # Binding edge
    outer: "0.5in"         # Trim edge
  bleed: "0.125in"         # Print bleed zone

# Styling (CSS cascade)
styles:
  - "themes/classic.css"   # Bundled theme
  - "styles/custom.css"    # Your custom styles

# File ordering (optional - defaults to alphabetical)
files:
  - "01-introduction.md"
  - "02-mechanics.md"
  - "03-combat.md"

# Enable extensions (optional)
extensions:
  - "ttrpg"                # Stat blocks, dice notation, etc.
  - "dimm-city"            # District badges, roll prompts
```

### Page Format Options

Common book sizes:

```yaml
# Trade paperback
size: "6in 9in"

# Standard novel
size: "5.5in 8.5in"

# Large format
size: "8.5in 11in"

# A4
size: "210mm 297mm"

# A5
size: "148mm 210mm"
```

## File Organization

### Recommended Structure

```
my-book/
├── manifest.yaml
├── 00-frontmatter/
│   ├── title.md
│   ├── credits.md
│   └── toc.md
├── 01-introduction.md
├── 02-chapter-one.md
├── 03-chapter-two.md
├── 99-backmatter/
│   ├── appendix.md
│   └── index.md
├── assets/
│   ├── images/
│   ├── fonts/
│   └── diagrams/
└── styles/
    └── custom.css
```

### Naming Conventions

- **Number files** for explicit ordering: `01-intro.md`, `02-chapter.md`
- **Use descriptive names**: `character-creation.md` not `cc.md`
- **Separate frontmatter/backmatter**: Use folders or clear numbering
- **Keep images organized**: Use subdirectories by type or chapter

## Next Steps

- Review the [Core Directives Reference](core-directives.md) for page control
- Learn about [Typography & Formatting](typography.md) options
- Explore [Callouts & Admonitions](callouts.md) for highlighted content
- See [Styling & Theming](styling-theming.md) for customization
- Check [Best Practices](best-practices.md) for print optimization
